Improve manual optimization API (#5771)
PyTorchLightning/pytorch-lightning: docs/source/common/optimizers.rst

For advanced research topics like reinforcement learning, sparse coding, or GAN research, it may be desirable
to manually manage the optimization process. To do so, do the following:

> * Disable automatic optimization in Trainer:  Trainer(automatic_optimization=False) or override your LightningModule ``automatic_optimization`` property to False

Reviewer: The Trainer property is deprecated I think, we shouldn't advertise it then

Author: great catch !

* Drop or ignore the optimizer_idx argument
* Use `self.manual_backward(loss)` instead of `loss.backward()`.

.. note:: This is only recommended for experts who need ultimate flexibility. Lightning will handle only precision and accelerators logic. The users are left with zero_grad, accumulated_grad_batches, model toggling, etc..

> .. note:: Before 1.2, ``optimzer.step`` was calling ``zero_grad`` internally. From 1.2, it is left to the users expertize.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. warning:: Before 1.2, ``optimzer.step`` was calling ``zero_grad`` internally. From 1.2, it is left to the users expertize.
```

Author: Done !

> .. note:: To perform ``accumulate_grad_batches`` with one optimizer, you can do as such.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. tip:: To perform ``accumulate_grad_batches`` with one optimizer, you can do as such.
```

Author: Done !

> .. tip:: ``self.optimizers()`` will return ``LightningOptimizer`` objects. You can access your own optimizer with ``optimizer.optimizer``. However, if you use our own accelerator to perform a step, Lightning won't be able to support accelerators and precision for you.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. tip:: ``self.optimizers()`` will return ``LightningOptimizer`` objects. You can access your own optimizer with ``optimizer.optimizer``. However, if you use your own optimizer to perform a step, Lightning won't be able to support accelerators and precision for you.
```

Author: Done !

    def training_step(batch, batch_idx, optimizer_idx):
        opt = self.optimizers()

        def closure()
            loss = self.compute_loss(batch)
            self.manual_backward(loss)

        opt.step(closure=closure)

        if batch_idx % 2 == 0:
            opt.zero_grad()

.. note:: ``self.optimizers()`` will return ``LightningOptimizer`` objects. You can access your own optimizer with ``optimizer.optimizer``. However, if you use our own accelerator to perform a step, Lightning won't be able to support accelerators and precision for you.

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer 2: is this part of the note? the p[probably add move right,,,

Author: Done !

    # Scenario for a GAN.

    def training_step(...):
        opt_gen, opt_dis = self.optimizers()

        ...

        # compute generator loss
        loss_gen = self.compute_generator_loss(...)

        # zero_grad needs to be called before backward
        opt_gen.zero_grad()
        self.manual_backward(loss_gen)
        opt_gen.step()

        # compute discriminator loss
        loss_dis = self.compute_discriminator_loss(...)

        # zero_grad needs to be called before backward
        opt_dis.zero_grad()
        self.manual_backward(loss_dis)
        opt_dis.step()

.. note:: ``LightningOptimizer`` provides a ``toggle_model`` function as a ``context manager`` for advanced users. It can be useful when performing ``gradient accumulation with several optimizers`` and training with ``multiple gpus``.

Here is an explanation of what it does:

Considering the current optimizer as A and all other optimizers as B.

> Toggling means that all parameters from B exclusive to A will have their ``requieres_grad`` attribute set to ``False``. Their original state will be restored when exitting the context manager.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Toggling means that all parameters from B exclusive to A will have their ``requires_grad`` attribute set to ``False``. Their original state will be restored when exiting the context manager.
```

Author: Done !

to manually manage the optimization process. To do so, do the following:

* Override your LightningModule ``automatic_optimization`` property to return ``False``
* Drop or ignore the optimizer_idx argument
* Use `self.manual_backward(loss)` instead of `loss.backward()`.

.. note:: This is only recommended for experts who need ultimate flexibility. Lightning will handle only precision and accelerators logic. The users are left with zero_grad, accumulated_grad_batches, model toggling, etc..

.. warning:: Before 1.2, ``optimzer.step`` was calling ``zero_grad`` internally. From 1.2, it is left to the users expertize.

.. tip:: To perform ``accumulate_grad_batches`` with one optimizer, you can do as such.

.. tip:: ``self.optimizers()`` will return ``LightningOptimizer`` objects. You can access your own optimizer with ``optimizer.optimizer``. However, if you use your own optimizer to perform a step, Lightning won't be able to support accelerators and precision for you.

.. code-block:: python

    def training_step(batch, batch_idx, optimizer_idx):
        opt = self.optimizers()

        loss = self.compute_loss(batch)
        self.manual_backward(loss)
        opt.step()

>         # zero grad

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        # accumulate gradient batches
```

Author: Done !

        if batch_idx % 2 == 0:
            opt.zero_grad()

> .. tip:: It is good pratice to provide to the optimizer a ``closure function`` that perform a ``forward and backward`` evaluation of your model. It is optional for most optimizers, but make your code compatible if you switch to an optimizer which requires a closure.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. tip:: It is a good practice to provide the optimizer with a ``closure`` function that performs a ``forward`` and ``backward`` pass of your model. It is optional for most optimizers, but makes your code compatible if you switch to an optimizer which requires a closure.
```

Author: Done !

Here is the same example as above using a ``closure``.

.. code-block:: python

    def training_step(batch, batch_idx, optimizer_idx):
        opt = self.optimizers()

        def forward_and_backward():
            loss = self.compute_loss(batch)
            self.manual_backward(loss)

        opt.step(closure=forward_and_backward)

>         # zero grad

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        # accumulate gradient batches
```

        if batch_idx % 2 == 0:
            opt.zero_grad()

.. code-block:: python

    # Scenario for a GAN.

    def training_step(...):
        opt_gen, opt_dis = self.optimizers()

        # compute generator loss
        loss_gen = self.compute_generator_loss(...)

        # zero_grad needs to be called before backward
        opt_gen.zero_grad()
        self.manual_backward(loss_gen)
        opt_gen.step()

        # compute discriminator loss
        loss_dis = self.compute_discriminator_loss(...)

        # zero_grad needs to be called before backward
        opt_dis.zero_grad()
        self.manual_backward(loss_dis)
        opt_dis.step()

> .. note:: ``LightningOptimizer`` provides a ``toggle_model`` function as a ``context manager`` for advanced users. It can be useful when performing ``gradient accumulation with several optimizers`` and training with ``multiple gpus``.

Reviewer 4: We should reserve backticks for code

```suggestion
.. note:: ``LightningOptimizer`` provides a ``toggle_model`` function as a ``@context_manager`` for advanced users. It can be useful when performing gradient accumulation with several optimizers or training in a distributed setting.
```

Author: Done !

For advanced research topics like reinforcement learning, sparse coding, or GAN research, it may be desirable
to manually manage the optimization process. To do so, do the following:

* Disable automatic optimization in Trainer:  Trainer(automatic_optimization=False) or override your LightningModule ``automatic_optimization`` property to False
* Drop or ignore the optimizer_idx argument
* Use `self.manual_backward(loss)` instead of `loss.backward()`.

.. note:: This is only recommended for experts who need ultimate flexibility. Lightning will handle only precision and accelerators logic. The users are left with zero_grad, accumulated_grad_batches, model toggling, etc..

.. code-block:: python

>     # Scenario for a gan.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # Scenario for a GAN.
```

Author: Done !

    def training_step(...):
        opt_gen, opt_dis = self.optimizers()

        ...

        # compute generator loss
        loss_gen = self.compute_generator_loss(...)

        # zero_grad needs to be called before backward
        opt_gen.zero_grad()
        self.manual_backward(loss_gen)
        opt_gen.step()

        # compute discriminator loss
        loss_dis = self.compute_discriminator_loss(...)

        # zero_grad needs to be called before backward
        opt_dis.zero_grad()
        self.manual_backward(loss_dis)

>         opt_dis.step()

Reviewer 3: It's truly manual
love this way of manual optimization! awesome

Author: :)

.. note:: ``self.optimizers()`` will return ``LightningOptimizer``. You can access your own optimizer with ``optimizer.optimizer``. However, if you use our own accelerator, we will lose support for accelerators and precision.

.. note:: To perform the accumulate_grad_batches with one optimizer, you can do as such.

.. code-block:: python

>     # Scenario for a gan.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # Scenario for a GAN.
```

Author: Done !
